---
title: Insert title here
key: c14ed9e40546a58de7b612bd1f036696

---
## SQLite to pandas dataframe

```yaml
type: "TitleSlide"
key: "dc0303a952"
```

`@lower_third`

name: Jenna Olsen
title: Data Engineer & Analyst


`@script`
Welcome to the first objective in this course -- extracting data from SQLite to a pandas dataframe.


---
## pandas dataframe

```yaml
type: "FullSlide"
key: "8c2aceaa1c"
```

`@part1`
__Dataframe object__

- fast
- efficient
- manipulate/merge/join datasets 
- structured data


`@script`
The pandas library for Python provides a fast and efficient tool for manipulating, merging, and joining data sets. This is done with the Dataframe object - which contains structured data in a format similar to a spreadsheet or csv file.


---
## SQLite

```yaml
type: "FullSlide"
key: "505072b1e0"
```

`@part1`
- Self-contained & full-featured

- Portable

- Ready to run

- Database in a single file


`@script`
SQLite is a self-contained & full-featured SQL database engine.  It is extremely portable and ready to run without installation or configuration.  This makes it a popular choice for many applications.  The entire database is stored in a single file which can easily be transported and analyzed on different machines.


---
## The Data Set -- Years of Professional Hockey

```yaml
type: "FullSlide"
key: "8e988f8be8"
```

`@part1`
Data source: https://www.kaggle.com/open-source-sports/professional-hockey-database/kernels?sortBy=dateRun&group=profile&pageSize=20&datasetId=450

sqlite db file available at https://github.com/jennaanneolsen/professional_hockey_database


`@script`
For this project we will be using the Professional Hockey Database.  This is a public data set of over 100 years (1909-2011) of professional hockey data - coaches, teams, players, matches, and so on. This data set is available at the kaggle link shown on the slide.


---
## pandas sample code

```yaml
type: "FullCodeSlide"
key: "d236c2ed08"
```

`@part1`
```
#import libraries
import pandas as pd
import sqlite3

#connect to database file
c = sqlite3.connect("database.sqlite")

#create dataframe using 'read_sql_query'
df_play = pd.read_sql_query("select * from players limit 25;",c)

#check the dataframe
df_play.head(10) 
```


`@script`
sqlite3 is a Python library - a database api tool that allows connections to and manipulations of a SQLite database.  
After importing the necessary libraries - pandas & sqlite3 - we start by establishing a connection to the database file itself. Then we can use the 'read sql query' command to create a dataframe from the results of an SQL query.  In this example, we are getting the top twenty-five records from the players table.


---
## End of Objective

```yaml
type: "FinalSlide"
key: "23611838cd"
```

`@script`
We have successfully pulled data from a sqlite database into a pandas dataframe.  As we continue the course, we will learn additional ways to populate and manipulate dataframes in the Python environment.

